OpenVoice is a light-weight, open-source web framework enabling developers to write GoogleVoice-like applications
using RESTful APIs. Thanks to Ruby-on-Rails and Tropo, developers can create next generation telephony applications
quickly. Under the hood, OpenVoice handles call routing/forwarding, voicemails services including transcription,
SIP/Skype support, and IM/SMS  support. Some notable differences from GoogleVoice are: open-source, API support,
and SIP/Skype support where GoogleVoice only supports Gizmo.

OpenVoice is built on top of Tropo, it can be deployed onto any server because it is a Rails application. In the future
OpenVoice plans to support other backends such as FreeSwitch. On the client side, OpenVoice supports Android and will
support Flash phone.

h3. There are two ways to use OpenVoice:

h4. 1. Use http://openvoice.heroku.com

First go to http://openvoice.heroku.com/users/new to create a new login.
Then click on profile link and note that you have a voice number provisioned.  This is your openvoice number.
Then click on "phone numbers" link and add some number you want to link to your openvoice number.
Forward: check this box if you want the call to be forwarded to this number when someone calls your openvoice number.
Default: only check one of these.  This number is used for outbound calls.  When you call someone, it will first ring
this number.  Once your pick up the phone, it will ring the destination number.

Please keep in mind that this openvoice server is under active developement thus in no way stable.  If you want stability,
deploy the code on your own server.

h4. 2. Self-hosted

First you need to create a tropo application.  Go to tropo.com and sign up for a free developer's account.
Create a tropo application and make it look like this:
"tropo application setup":http://idisk.me.com/zlu/Public/Pictures/Skitch/Tropo.com-20100609-082358.jpg
Url for voice (replace server to your own domain)
http://openvoice.heroku.com/communications/index?format=json
And the url for messaging is (replace server to your own domain):
http://openvoice.heroku.com/messagings/create?format=json

export the following environment variables for shell (in .bashrc or .profile)
export TROPO_APP=your_tropo_applicaton_id
export TROPO_USER=your_tropo_user_name
export TROPO_PASS=your_tropo_password
export FS_HOST=your_freeswitch_server
export FS_HOST_IP=your_freeswitch_ip
export FS_PORT=your_freeswitch_port
export FS_PASSWORD=your_freeswitch_password


if you are deploying to heroku, use the following instruction to define config vars:
http://docs.heroku.com/config-vars

* To find out the tropo_app_id:
Go to this url in your browser:
http://your_tropo_user_name:your_tropo_password@api.tropo.com/provisioning/applications
Accept warnings and you should see a list of all your tropo apps in json.
The number at then end of href is the app_id.  I know this approach is less ideal, but in the future tropo will
display app_id in web ui.  Also I plan to add tropo app provision in OV.

Next edit development.rb and production.rb
SERVER_URL = your_domain
OUTBOUND_TOKEN_VOICE = your_tropo_voice_token
OUTBOUND_TOKEN_MESSAGING = your_tropo_messaging_token

Start ov server and create a new user.  Now go to
Then click on profile link and note that you have a voice number provisioned.  This is your openvoice number.
Then click on "phone numbers" link and add some number you want to link to your openvoice number.
Forward: check this box if you want the call to be forwarded to this number when someone calls your openvoice number.
Default: only check one of these.  This number is used for outbound calls.  When you call someone, it will first ring
this number.  Once your pick up the phone, it will ring the destination number.

h3. To setup your development environment:

Create a tropo app first and get your own phone numbers and IMs
Clone this project and start the rails server on your local machine
Highly recommend use rake tunnel:tunnel:start to reverse tunnel to your local machine for faster development.
You can either setup your own reverse ssh tunnel or get one from tunnlr.com.
Please don't use my tunnlr credential.

h3. Bugs

If you find bugs, please log them in the issues section on github.

h3. To call me and complain

Voice & Messaging: (408) 940-5938
Skype Voice: +99000936 9991429707
SIP Voice: sip:9991429707@sip.tropo.com
IM: openvoice@tropo.im
Twitter: openvoice
